Now, let's get into Transfer Learning with TensorFlow.
Transfer learning is an incredibly important topic in deep learning.
You'll be able to use pre-trained networks to
solve extremely challenging problems in computer vision.
In our case, we're going to use a network that was pre-trained on the ImageNet data set.
ImageNet is a massive data set with
over one million labeled images in a 1,000 categories.
As you might guess, these pre-trained networks were trained for a very,
very long time to get good at recognizing so many images in so many categories.
They work astonishingly well as feature detectors for images they weren't trained on.
So here we can use a pre-trained network on
images that weren't in that training set and this is known as transfer learning.
We'll use this to train a network that can classify
our cat and dog photos with near perfect accuracy.
Note that with TensorFlow Hub,
you can download these pre-trained networks and use them in your applications.
So this time around, we'll go back to using TensorFlow data sets for our data.
In this case, we've gotten the cats versus dogs data
set from TensorFlow data sets and we're going to split it with a 60,
20, 20 train, test, and validation split.
So here's just a quick look at our data set.
You'll notice that we have more images this time of
23,000 and you can also see
a little bit more information about where some of this data has come from.
So we still have two classes,
but this time we have our 23,000 images between cats and dogs.
As a quick note, if the total number of
samples in your data set is not a multiple of 100,
then TensorFlow may not evenly distribute the data among subsplits.
So in our particular case,
we should expect that our data will not be evenly distributed just because we have
23,262 images instead of say, 23,200 or 23,300.
So there will be some variance from our percentages of 60 percent,
20 percent, and 20 percent.
This isn't really going to have much of a difference on our training process at all.
It's just a quick note because before when we were using MNIST and Fashion-MNIST,
we had 70,000 examples,
so it was evenly distributed.
Again, here's one of our images just to
show we haven't really changed our data set coming in.
We will again start by creating a pipeline to take in our training examples.
So once again, we want to set this to have values from 0-1,
as well as the size of 224 by 224,
which we'll use with our network.
Once again, we'll set up our batches after that,
including shuffling our training set and setting
them to the batch size for training, validation, and testing.
Now, let's look at how TensorFlow Hub makes using these pre-trained models easier.
TensorFlow Hub is an online repository of pre-trained models.
In addition to complete pre-trained models,
such as the 1,000 classes of ImageNet,
TensorFlow Hub also has models without the final classification layer.
This means that you can just add a single layer,
such as our output of two classes to the end of the network.
You can follow the link here for TensorFlow Hub if you want to see more available models.
In this notebook, we're going to use
a network trained on the ImageNet data set called MobileNet.
This is a state-of-the-art convolutional neural network developed by Google.
MobileNet is also a little smaller than many other networks as it's
optimized for use on mobile devices and so it can be a little faster to work with.
So here, we're going to use our TensorFlow Hub to
download this model of MobileNet without the final classification layer.
Note that this function downloads the desired model from
our TensorFlow Hub URL and then it's going to
wrap it in a Keras layer so that we can integrate it
into a tf.keras sequential model later.
This model itself is actually going to be the first layer in our sequential model.
So we need to make sure that we specify an input shape which
is based off our image size of 224 by 224 by 3.
It's also important that we freeze the weights and biases
in our pre-trained model so that we don't modify them during training.
We can do this by setting our model as trainable equals false.
Now, let's go ahead and build our model with tf.keras sequential.
So we'll feed in our feature extractor here as the first layer,
as well as add an output layer with
our two classes and a softmax activation function once again.
As you can see here in the model summary,
this entire pre-trained model is just going to
show as a single layer in that model.summary.
Now, this time around,
we're going to use a GPU for training,
especially if you were training a neural network as deep as this one,
you would definitely need GPU acceleration.
So if you're still using the earlier notebooks in the lesson,
make sure you move to the notebooks near the end of the lesson,
which are GPU workspace and then you'll be able to select in the bottom-left to
enable the GPU or when you load the page it'll allow you to enable the GPU right away.
We can also use the tf.test,
that is GPU available function to confirm that TensorFlow is using the GPU.
Note that on a GPU, linear algebra computations are done in parallel,
leading to almost a 100 times increased training speeds.
So this can run much,
much faster on a GPU.
If you have TensorFlow GPU installed,
it's going to go ahead and run on a GPU by default without further changes to your code.
It's also possible in TensorFlow to train on multiple GPUs,
which further decreases training time and allows for distributed training.
Note that TensorFlow does use different identifiers for CPUs and GPUs.
So you can see the CPU 0 or GPU 0 for the main CPU and GPU on your machine.
You can also manually have TensorFlow use different devices if you say
with tf device and specify which device you want it to run certain operations on.
So as you can see in our example here,
when you use that CPU device,
that means a and b would be calculated with the CPU.
However, because it has a CPU and GPU,
that means the matrix multiplication will by default be run on a GPU.
Now, I've included a function here where you can actually test the difference in
GPU versus CPU execution time and it will go ahead and plot this for you.
I'll let you run this on your own time with
the GPU in your workspace and see the results.
It's really astounding as you get
larger and larger matrices what the difference is between CPU and GPU.
From here, I'll let you finish training the model.
It's the same as before,
except now your model will automatically run in a GPU.
This time around, instead of being stuck around 50 percent,
you'll probably get 95 percent or higher accuracy pretty easily.
So go ahead below and train the model to classify the cat and dog images in our data set.
Note that you only need a few epochs to get a high accuracy,
so you don't need to train for a super, super long time.